For 500,000 years, we've had essentially
the same cognitive architecture. And
today, I want to talk about a leap that
we can make, all of us, even
non-engineers, can make in 2026 that
will help us to build a second brain
with AI in a way that's never been
possible before. But first, let me set
the stage. Why does this matter? Look, a
second brain doesn't have to exist
because you're lazy. It's not because
you don't care. It's fundamentally
because your brain was never designed to
be a storage system. Brains are designed
to think. And every time you force a
brain to remember something, instead of
letting it think of something new,
you're paying a tax that you don't see.
And that tax shows up in real ways. It
shows up in relationships that cool off
because you forgot what someone told you
that mattered to them. It shows up in
projects that fail in the same way you
predicted at 11:00 p.m. 3 weeks ago,
except you forgot to write it down. and
you got to be right and then you still
got to suffer the consequences cuz you
couldn't prevent it. It shows up in the
background hum of constant open loops in
your brain. Things you never finished
that you are just on the edge of
remembering that low-grade anxiety of
don't forget to do this running as a
thread that you cannot close because you
never put that loop anywhere reliable
and you can't trust a journaling system
to remember. So here's what I want you
to understand about this moment in our
history. For hundreds of thousands of
years, human beings have had roughly the
same cognitive architecture. We can hold
about four to seven things in working
memory. There's a reason why phone
numbers are about the length they are.
We're terrible at retrieval. We're great
at pattern recognition when the patterns
are in front of us. And we're really bad
are scattered like they so often are at
work across six months of
half-remembered conversations. Every
productivity system ever invented has
been a workaround for our human brain
limitations. Writing itself is a
workaround. So, filing cabinets,
rolodexes, to-do lists, journaling
systems, all of it has been an attempt
to extend our biological memory into
something that is more reliable. But
here's what's different about 2026. For
the first time in human history, we have
access to systems that do not just
passively store information, but
actively work against that information
we give it while we sleep and do other
things. Systems that can classify,
route, or summarize or surface or nudge
without us having to remember to do any
of those activities. This is not an
incremental improvement. This is an
entirely new capability in the history
of human cognition. And the most
important part is in 2026, you don't
have to be an engineer to build a second
brain. So let me go through what has
actually changed and why this moment
matters. And I think this is the time if
you don't have a second brain, it's
worth building one. So for years, the
promise of a second brain was
essentially just, hey, it's better
storage. You pick a tool, maybe it's
notion, maybe it's Obsidian, maybe it's
Rome, maybe it's Evernote, and you
capture your notes. Maybe you use AI to
summarize, to search, and then nothing.
the notes would pile up. You end up
having to keep them very organized
yourself or you stop trusting them. At
some point, it becomes the company wiki
that everyone looks at as a dump of old
information. You stop using it and the
system dies the death of so many of
these storage solutions. I've watched
this cycle repeat in personal systems
and professional systems for well over a
decade. And smart people, really
motivated people, people who genuinely
want to be organized tend to hit the
same wall. The storage systems we have
today work for about one in 20 people
that I talk to on an ongoing daily
basis. And those people are typically
the most organized people I know. So you
would think they need it the least, but
they're so organized they can make it
work for them. For the rest of us, it's
a challenge. And the wall is not
motivation. The wall is that traditional
systems ask us to do cognitive work at
exactly the wrong moment. They ask us to
decide where a thought belongs when
we're walking into a meeting. They ask
us to tag it when we're driving. They
ask us to name it properly when we're
about to go to bed. They ask us to
choose a folder in a taxonomy and a
structure. And that's the moment when
you frankly don't want that. You just
want relief. You want someone else to do
it. You don't want to organize. You want
to capture it and move on. And so most
of us do what every normal person does.
We take a note somewhere. You stick it
in Apple Notes and you tell yourself
you'll organize it later, right? And
later never comes. You have a pile of
notes you don't trust, which means you
stop putting notes in it. and the whole
thing collapses. And so what's changed
is that we're moving from AI inside your
notes as a search tool to AI running a
loop. And the difference is enormous. An
AI loop means the system does work
whether or not you feel motivated today.
You capture a thought in 5 seconds. The
system classifies it. It routes it to
the right place. It extracts the
relevant details. It writes it into a
structured database. And then it nudges
you every morning with what matters
today. Then it reviews your week every
Sunday and it tells you what's stuck,
what's moving, what you should focus on
next. You don't have to remember to use
it. It just shows up. That's the shift
from building a knowledge base to
installing a behavior changing system.
The center of gravity moves from you as
the person who has to keep all of this
on the rails to the loop helping you
stay on the rails and stay organized.
You get a genuine support structure.
Now, this all sounds very theoretical. I
am not a hypy person. I am not the
person telling you to do this in early
2024 when the tools aren't ready. I want
to tell you now exactly what tools make
this work today in 2026. The stack I
would recommend if you are not an
engineer is Slack plus notion plus
Zapier plus Claude or Chat JPT. That's
it. Four tools all of which you probably
already have access to or can get access
to in the next 10 minutes. Slack is your
capture point. Almost everyone's in
Slack already. You create one private
channel just for you called SB Inbox or
whatever you want to name it. And that's
where you throw every single thought.
One message per thought. No organizing,
no tagging, no decisions. You type it or
you paste it and you hit send. Notion is
the storage layer. You create four
simple databases. People, projects,
ideas, and admin. Each one has a handful
of field that the system is going to
fill in automatically. like the date
that you filed. This is a great field,
right? And you then create a fifth
database called the inbox log that acts
as an audit trail for this system. And
if you're wondering, how do I keep this
straight? I can't remember this. This is
a second brain. Well, good news. I made
a whole guide for it and you can go and
grab it on Substack and you don't have
to remember this part. Zapier is your
automation layer. It's the thing that
wires everything together. When a
message appears in your Slack channel,
Zapier just sees it and it kicks off the
workflow to pipe things into notion. And
so the workflow calls an AI, it writes
to notion, it fills out all those fields
I described and then it replies back in
Slack. You can also use make instead of
Zapier if you want something that's
cheaper. Same idea. The logic is
identical. And Clott GPT ends up being
your intelligence layer. It's what
classifies your thought. It's extracts
the relevant details. It decides where
things should go. You give it a very
specific prompt with say a JSON schema
and it returns structured data that
Zapier can then write directly into
notion. And so the flow looks like this.
Slack captures the stuff. You use Zapier
to automate pulling that raw data out.
Zapier then makes a call using your
structured prompt to Chad GPT or to
Claude and they provide the intelligence
to structure this out into a useful
complete entry that you can make into
your second brain. And then that gets
piped into notion. Everything else at
that point is just configuration to make
it feel like home to you. And so what I
find genuinely exciting about this
moment, it's not the nerdiness of
hooking it up and getting like Zapier to
talk to Slack and everything else. The
patterns that make these systems work
are the exciting thing because even
though they're not particularly new and
engineers have been building reliable
automated systems for a while, we in the
non-engineering world are just now at a
point in 2026 where we can leverage
these principles to build these kinds of
systems without a single line of code.
And so I want to be really explicit in
this video and I want to teach you the
principles that I use to design the
system I just described. So you
understand how this works and why it
scales and you can apply this other
places with AI. And so these are
principles that govern how we make
systems that scale, systems that don't
break, systems that maintain trust over
time. These are long-standing
engineering principles, and we all need
to know them now. And so I'm going to
take this opportunity to say, here's the
system. Here's the second brain, but
also here's how you learn from this.
Here are the engineering principles
translated for non-engineers that you
can latch on to. And when you understand
these things, you can build things that
used to require a principal engineer to
implement. So here's the building
blocks. Engineers have really fancy
names for these things, but I'm going to
give you plain language that actually
make sense. There are about eight core
pieces that make a second brain system
work. And once you see them, you're
going to recognize them in a bunch of
other reliable systems, and that's going
to help you build fluency that you will
need with AI in 2026. The first building
block is what I call the Dropbox.
Engineers are going to call this the
capture door or the ingress point. It's
the one place you're allowed to throw
things without thinking. It has to be
frictionless. If capturing a thought
takes more than a couple of seconds,
you're actually not going to do it
consistently despite your good
intentions. It's not a moral failing.
It's just human nature. So, you need one
place, one action, one consistent habit.
In this system, the Dropbox, say that
five times fast, is a Slack channel
called SB Inbox. You create it, you make
it private, you pin a message explaining
what goes in there. From then on,
whenever a thought appears in your head
that you don't want to lose, you open up
Slack, you go to that channel, and you
just type it in. One message, done.
You're not allowed to have three capture
points, you have only one, and it
requires zero decisions. The second
building block is the sorter. Engineers
call this a classifier. They call it a
router. It's the AI step that decides
what bucket your thought belongs in
without you having to think about it. Is
this about a person, a project, an idea,
some admin errand that you need to do?
Here's why this matters. The number one
reason second brains fail is they
require taxonomy work at capture time.
They force you to decide where something
goes. And for non-engineers, that
decision is where systems go to die.
It's the blank canvas problem, the
perfect structure fantasy, the slow
drift into fiddling with folders instead
of actually capturing thoughts. So, the
sortter removes all of that entirely.
You throw a raw thought at your Slack
channel. Zapier picks it up and sends it
to Claude or GPT with a classification
prompt. The AI then figures out what it
is, extracts the relevant details, names
it something useful, and returns
structured JSON. Classification is a
solved problem this year in 2026. You
can let the model do the sorting, and it
will just work. The third building block
is the form. Engineers call this the
schema. They might call it a data
contract. It's the set of fields your
system promises to produce and store for
each type of thing. So, for a person in
your people database, this can mean the
name, the context about who they are and
how you know them, follow-ups that you
need to remember for next time you talk,
and a timestamp for when you last
updated their entry. For a project, it
can be the name, the status, which could
be active or waiting or blocked or
someday or done, the literal next action
you need to take, and any relevant
notes. If it's an idea, maybe it's a
title, a oneliner that captures the core
insight, and space for elaboration. So,
why does this matter? Because without a
consistent form, you're going to get
messy notes that can't be reliably
queried, that can't be reliably
summarized or surfaced. Claude is not
going to generate a useful daily digest
if every entry is structured
differently. The form is what makes
automation possible. It's what is what
lets the system compound like a good
flywheel. The fourth building block is
the filing cabinet. Engineers call this
the memory store or the source of truth.
It's where the system writes facts so
that they can be reused later. It has to
be writable by automation and readable
by humans. And it has to support simple
filters and views. So in this system,
your filing cabinet is notion.
Specifically, it's the four databases I
talked about, right? It's people,
project ideas, and admin. And notion
databases are visual. They're really
easy to edit without breaking anything.
You can create different views filtered
by status, by date, by tags. when
something goes wrong, you can see what
happened and fix it directly. And
critically, Notion has a solid API that
Zapier can write to reliably. The fifth
building block is the receipt. Engineers
call this an audit trail or a ledger.
It's a record of what came in, what the
system did with it, and how confident it
was. And that matters more than a lot of
us might realize. You don't really
abandon systems because they're
imperfect. You abandon them because you
stop trusting them. And you stop
trusting them because errors feel
mysterious. something went wrong, but
you don't know what or when or why, and
you can't predict when the next error is
going to happen, and you just give up.
The receipt fixes that. In this system,
your receipt is a notion database called
inbox log. And every capture gets logged
there with the original text that you
typed, where it was filed, what it was
named, and a confident score from the
AI. And now when something looks off,
you trace it. You can see what the
system decided. You can see why comes
from visibility, and visibility comes
from logging. The sixth building block
is the bouncer. Engineers call this a
confidence filter or a guardrail. I like
bouncer as a word. It's the mechanism
that prevents lowquality outputs from
polluting your memory storage. And
here's how it works. When Claude or Chad
GPT classifies your thought, it also
returns a confidence score between zero
and one. If that confidence is below a
threshold, let's say 6, the system
doesn't file it into people. It doesn't
file it into projects. It doesn't file
it into ideas. Instead, it logs it in
inbox log with a status that says needs
review and sends you a Slack reply
asking for a clarification. I'm not sure
where this goes. Can you repost it with
a prefix like person or project or idea?
I couldn't classify. This single
mechanism is what keeps your second
brain from becoming a junk drawer. The
fastest way to kill a system is to fill
it with garbage. The bouncer keeps
things clean enough that you maintain
trust, and trust is what keeps you using
it. The seventh building block is the
tap on the shoulder. Engineers call this
proactive surfacing or notification.
It's the system pushing useful
information to you at the right time
without you having to search for it. So
in this system, the tap on the shoulder
is a daily Slack DM that arrives at
whatever time you want in the morning
and is generated by a scheduled Zapier
automation that queries your notion
databases, pulls your active projects,
any people with noted follow-ups, and
sends that to Claude or Chad GPT with a
summarization prompt, and then delivers
a nice digest directly to your Slack
DMs. And the digest will have three
parts, right? It's going to have the top
three actions for the day. It's going to
have one thing you might be stuck on
that you're avoiding and one small win
to notice. It's designed to fit on a
phone screen. It's designed for you to
read it in 2 minutes, to know what
matters today, and to start your day
with confidence. And these nudges,
they're not optional features. They're
what makes this system alive instead of
dead. Humans don't retrieve
consistently. We don't wake up and
think, I should search my notion
databases for relevant information about
the meeting I have today. In the
advertisements, we do that, but we don't
really do that. We do respond to what
shows up in front of us. The tap on the
shoulder exploits that. It puts the
right information in your path so you
don't have to remember to look for it.
There's also a weekly version. Every
Sunday at say whatever time, 4 p.m.
whenever you want to have the Sunday
scaries, right? Another Zapier
automation runs. It queries everything
from the past seven days in your inbox
log, pulls your active projects, sends
it all to Claude or chat GPT with a
review prompt, and then delivers a
weekly summary to your Slack DMs. And
that summary, it'll tell you what
happened. It tells you what your biggest
open loops are. Three suggested actions
for next week and one recurring theme
that the system noticed. And so the
Sunday review becomes a cadence that you
can trust. It it's what turns storage
into a consistent weekly direction. And
without it, you're kind of just
accumulating notes like the old way. The
eighth building block is the fix button.
Engineers would call this a feedback
handle or a human in the loop correction
mechanism. It's the one-step way to
correct mistakes without opening
dashboards or without trying to do
maintenance. In this system, whenever
the Zapier automation files something,
it's going to reply in the Slack thread
confirming what it did. Hey, this was
filed as a project. The project is
website relaunch. The confidence was 087
reply fix if I got it wrong. If the
filing was wrong, all you do is reply in
the thread fix colon. This should be
people, not projects. And the system
will just update it. So why does that
matter? Because systems get adopted when
they're easy to repair. [snorts] If
fixing errors feels like work if you
have to open notion and navigate to the
right database and find the entry and
you're not going to do that. You're
going to stop engaging. Corrections must
be trivial or people will not make them.
Now, let me give you the principles that
make those building blocks actually
work. These these are engineering
principles, but they're not complicated.
They're just rules that experienced
system builders have learned. And when
you understand them, you can build
things that do not fall apart. Principle
number one, reduce the human's job to
one reliable behavior. If your system
requires three behaviors, you don't have
a system. You have a self-improvement
program. And non-engineers will not run
those programs very consistently. The
scalable move is to make the human do
one thing, which in this case is capture
it in Slack. Everything else is
automation. Classification is Claude or
Chad GPT doing the work and filing is
Zapier doing the work and surfacing is a
scheduled automation. You get the idea.
The human's job is just to throw
thoughts at the channel. That's it.
Principle number two, separate memory
from compute and from interface. This is
the single most important architectural
principle and it's how you build
something that lasts. Memory is where
truth lives. That's your notion database
in this system. Compute is where the
logic run. That's zap year and that's
claude. Interface is where the human
interacts. That's in Slack. Why would we
separate those? Because it makes the
system portable and swappable. You can
change your interface from Slack to
Microsoft Teams without rebuilding
everything. You can swap Claude for Chad
GPT without touching your databases. You
can move from notion to Air Table if
your company wants you to or if you feel
like it. Every layer has just one job
and they connect through clear
boundaries. This is also why I don't
recommend starting with Obsidian if
you're a non-engineer, even though
Obsidian is a beautiful tool. Obsidian
stores everything as local markdown
files, which is really great for
portability. It's great for ownership,
but writing into local files from cloud
automation introduces a layer of syncing
and plumbing that may seem trivial for
engineers, but I find is often
frustrating for everybody else. So,
starting with notion makes that
automation really clean, and you can
always migrate later if you want
something that's local first. Principle
number three, treat prompts like APIs,
not like creative writing. A scalable
agentic prompt is a contract. It's a
fixed input format. It's a fixed output
format. It's no surprises. You give
Claude or Chad GPT a schema. You give it
rules and you tell it to return JSON
only with no explanation and no
markdown. That feels restrictive and
that's the whole point. You don't want
the model to be helpful in uncontrolled
ways in this system. You want it to fill
out a form. The prompt specifies exactly
what fields to return, exactly what
values are valid, and exactly how to
handle ambiguous cases. Reliable beats
creative in these systems. And it's
really important to remember that as you
start to build things. Principle four,
always build a trust mechanism, not just
a capability. So a capability is the bot
files the notes, right? A trust
mechanism is I believe the filing enough
to keep using it because and so trust
comes from the inbox log that shows you
everything that happened. Confidence
scores from the fix button that makes
corrections trivial. Without these small
things, you might think the system would
still function, but small errors tend to
compound. And with them, the system
actually can learn and earn your
confidence over time. Principle number
five, you want to default to safe
behavior when uncertain. A real agentic
system has to know how to fail
gracefully. The safest default is when
Claude or Chad GPT isn't sure is you
just log the item and write that Slack
message and ask for clarification. And
that's exactly why we have a confidence
threshold. When confidence is below
whatever number you select, I'm
suggesting 6. It doesn't file. It just
holds. It asks. It might seem boring,
but it's essential to build trust.
Principle number six, make output small,
frequent, and actionable. Non-engineers
don't want a weekly 2,000word analysis,
right? They want a top three list that
fits on a phone screen. Frankly, most
engineers do, too. They want a Slack DM
they can read in 2 minutes. Most
engineers do, too. Small outputs reduce
cognitive load and increase
follow-through. So, the daily digest
needs to be under 150 words, and the
weekly review needs to be under 250
words. That's very intentional. Agentic
systems scale when they produce very
useful outputs that are small but
extremely reliable on a set cadence. And
then at the end of the day, you start
trusting them because you're essentially
getting a breadcrumb of trust and value
every time you use it. Principle number
seven, use next action as the unit of
execution. So what I mean by that is
most project notes fail because they
store intentions, not actions. Work on
the website is not executable. Email
Sarah to confirm the copy deadline is
very executable. And so that's why the
project database will need to have a
field called next action. And the
classification prompt needs to be tuned
to extract very specific actions from
what is probably a vague statement on
your part because if your project
entries don't have concrete actions,
your daily digest is going to end up
feeling motivational rather than
operational. And this is all about
helping you be more operational in a way
that's reliable without you having to
put more cognitive work into it.
Principle eight, prefer routing over
organizing. Humans hate organizing. Most
of us, not all of us, most of us. Most
of us like dropping things in a box and
forgetting about them. Claude is good at
routing. Chai GBT is good at routing.
The principle is don't make users
maintain structures. Let the system
route into a small set of stable
buckets. And that's why the system I'm
suggesting has really only four
categories: people, projects, ideas, and
admin. More categories can feel more
precise, but can be much harder to
scale. It creates more decisions, more
confusion, more drift. Four buckets is
usually enough. You can always add more
later if you really discover a need.
Principle nine, keep the number of
categories and fields painfully small.
This is counterintuitive for smart
people. We we want richness. We want
nuance, but richness creates friction,
and friction kills adoption. So, the
people database, I'm suggesting it has
like just a few fields, right? the
person's name, the last time you
connected with them, the ideas database,
five fields at most. And the idea is if
you have minimal fields, you can always
add sophistication later. But if you
start simple and stay simple, it gives
you the option to continue to use the
system, and you only have to add
complexity when evidence says it's
needed. Principle 10, build your design
for restart, not for perfection. A
scalable system assumes users will fall
off. Life happens, you get sick, you
travel, you have a rough week at work.
The system should be easy to restart
without guilt or cleanup. If missing a
week creates some kind of backlog
monster, you're not going to restart.
You're just going to feel bad about
yourself. And so, that's why the
operating manual for this system
explicitly says, "Don't catch up. Just
restart. Do a 10-minute brain dump into
your inbox with whatever you've got and
resume tomorrow." And the automation
will keep things running whether you
engage or not. the system waits for you
and is supportive and is easy to
restart. Principle 11, build one
workflow and then attach modules. So the
scalable pattern is to build a core loop
that works for everybody and then add
optional capabilities later. And so the
core loop is capture to Slack, file to
notion, get a daily digest, get a weekly
review. That's the minimum viable loop
here. And once that's running, once you
trust it, you can add voice capture if
you want. You can add meeting prep by
integrating it with your calendar. You
can add email forwarding. You can add
birthday reminders, but you don't do
that first. You build the core loop
first. Principle 12, optimize for
maintainability over cleverness. So the
engineering temptation is to build a
beautiful system with so many moving
parts and elegant abstractions. And the
real world reality is that moving parts
are failure points. And so optimize for
fewer tools, fewer steps, clear logs,
easy reconnects. When your Zapier
automation stops because your Slack
token expired, which is a real thing,
you want to fix it in five minutes, not
debug it for an hour. And when notion
permissions get weird, you want to
reconnect and move on. That's what makes
this actually scale. Now, I often get
complaints on these videos that I don't
give enough detail. No complaints here.
I'm going to walk you through step by
step what we're doing. First, create the
Slack channel. Go to Slack. Create a new
channel called Whatever You Want. Make
it private if you wish. And pin a
message that explain what goes there.
Something like, "Drop a thought here.
one thought per message etc. Second, you
want to create the notion databases. You
want to create a new page called second
brain and inside it you want to create
your five databases as table people
might have name context follow-ups last
touched tags project status next action
notes ideas could have name and oneliner
and yes there there's there's going to
be a whole worksheet for you if you want
to get this in the substacks you don't
have to remember this but I'm just going
through the detail right you want to
have uh the name of the idea the
oneliner the notes the tags etc and
admin would have the name the due date
the status etc inbox log. It has to have
captured text file to destination record
the confidence level when it was
created. Third, you connect Zapier to
Slack and to Notion to make that pipe.
So you go to Zapier, you connect your
Slack account, you connect your notion
account, and when notion asks which
pages Zapier can access, make sure you
grant access to the right page. Fourth,
you want to build the automation. So
create a new zap and the trigger is new
message posted to channel in the Slack
and it's filtered to just that one
channel you want like SP inbox. The next
step is an AI action that sends the
message to Claude or Chad GBT with your
classification prompt. The prompt tells
it to classify into people, project
ideas or admin and yes, I'll supply this
prompt and then it returns JSON. And
then the next step, you're just parsing
that JSON. You add paths that route
based on the destination. If it's
people, create a record in the people
database. If it's projects, you create
in projects and so on. Fifth, you want
to build your morning digest. Create
another zap. The triggers a daily
schedule at whatever time in the
morning. the action queries your notion
database and you send that query result
to claude or chat GPT with a
summarization prompt. Again, I'll
provide the summarization prompt. Then
you can build the weekly review with the
same pattern. That's the whole system.
It's three Zapier automations. It's four
notion databases plus a log. It's one
channel. Look, it might not even take an
hour to set this up. And maybe it'll
take 90 minutes if you're comfortable
with Zapier. Now, let me tell you what
this will feel like when it's working,
though. You will feel lighter. It's not
because you're more productive in some
fantastically measurable way. It's
because you're closing all of the open
loops that are living in your head
constantly. And you'll notice yourself
thinking, I should remember that. And
instead of trying to leave it as an open
loop in your head, you're going to post
it into your SB inbox and move along
because you don't have to think about it
anymore. And so your head will get
clearer. And so you're going to notice
that you're able to show up with more
continuity for the people that matter to
you, for the projects that matter to
you, for the work. you'll have an easier
time remembering details. And then as
you go along and use it more, you're
going to start to compound because the
projects are going to start to develop
patterns that you can see and notice
over time. And that's going to enable
you to get smarter about giving input
back to the system through SP inbox.
Your anxiety, if you're someone who
tries to remember everything, it doesn't
magically go away entirely, but it
definitely changes in character. It
stops being just this background hum of
all of your unttracked commitments and
it starts being a small set of next
actions that you can actually take. It's
basically a a factory for turning your
anxiety and your difficulty in
remembering things into action. Now, I
got to be honest with you. I am going to
give you this video and most people will
not actually build this. Not because
it's hard. You've heard me describe it.
It doesn't take that long. It's because
we've normalized the leakage that comes
from being busy. We scroll through
YouTube, it's like, ah, Nate's saying
something again, he'll come up with
another video. I want you to think about
it as the cost of a system that we fail
to build isn't just missed ideas. It's
that your work becomes less compounding.
The value you create in 2026 is lower
because you're not building on that
value as intentionally as you could be.
And so, if you're watching this in
January and you're thinking about what
project might actually change the year,
think about doing this one, right?
You're not building a productivity
system. You're not building something to
feel good about yourself. You're just
relentlessly taking charge of your
actual brain and giving it a support
system that helps it to work
effectively. And for the first time in
human history, you have access to
systems that will work for you while you
sleep. That classify your thoughts
without you deciding, that surface the
right information without you searching,
that nudge you toward the goals and
priorities you've set without you having
to remember them. And you don't even
have to be an engineer to build this.
You just have to understand patterns.
And that's exactly what I've laid out in
this video. So that's the whole
architecture. And in 2026, you can build
it yourself. And yes, I have all of the
guides for this on the Substack. I hope
this has been helpful. I want everyone
to feel like one, they can build
something with AI. Two, it's worth
doing. Three, if you build smartly, you
are building in a way that allows you to
compound your advantage over time, which
is going to be really important as AI
moves faster in 2026. So, that's how to
build a second brain without a line of
code. And those are the engineering
principles that you're using even if
you're not an engineer. Hope you enjoyed
this one.